+++
title = "MECEE"
date = "2004-08-10T19:48:00+12:00"
categories = ["MGMT 302"]
slug = "mece"
draft = "False"
+++
I read a bit. One book I that had some interesting ideas was [The McKinsey
way](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0070534489/103--4978139--4335007)
by Ethan M. Rasiel. Many of the ideas are not new, the 80/20 rule, and
elevator pitch, and so on, but it does talk about the need to be MECE (pronounced 
'me-se') in writing and thinking.

That is to say, every plan, presentation, or even memo must be
present their ideas in a mutually exclusive, collectively
exhaustive manner. The book puts it this way:

> One of the most fundamental tenants of McKinsey problem
solving is the concept of MECE, mutually
exclusive, collectively exhaustive. MECE
can be used when developing and listing issues related to the
problem at hand. First, the associate must ensure that the list is
> 
> Then, she must check that it is collectively exhaustive, that it
includes every issue relevant to the problem. This approach prevents
overlap and confusion. A "major issues list" should contain no less
than two, and no more than five issues, with three being the ideal
number. The consultant must make a concerted effort to fit each
business problem faced by the company or non-profit under one of the
2--5 issues on the major issues list. If this fails, there is always the
option of creating a category of "other issues", although this is
most effective when utilized as a sub-heading for presentation
purposes.

Everyone at McKinsey gets well drilled in the art of being MECE:

> MECE structures your thinking with
maximum clarity--when you think you have determined the issues, take a
hard look at them. Is each one a separate and distinct issue? If so,
then your issue list is mutually exclusive. Does every aspect of the
problem come under one (and only one) of these issues? If so, then your
issues are collectively exhaustive ... [so that] every document
(including internal memos), every presentation, every e-mail and
voice mail produced by McKinsey-ite is supposed to be MECE.

This is closely related to the _pyramid method_ described by Barbara
Minto in her book [The Minto Pyramid Principle: Logic in Writing, Thinking, & Problem
Solving](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0960191038/104--4829012--6386327).

The ideas behind the pyramid method and MECE are used a lot by the 
big consulting firms (McKinsey has already been
mentioned, but BC, Anderson/Accenture).  They
are also used by strategy case competition teams, and even by
students writing theses.

[Here](files/VCOprez2004.ppt)
is a fragment (well 150k) of a presentation from the [Harvard
Business School](http://www.hbs.edu/) that shows some of these ideas.  It
is also a good example of _how to tackle cases in general_.

