+++
title = "The good"
date = "2004-04-06T15:53:00+12:00"
categories = ["MGMT 301"]
slug = "the-good"
draft = "False"
+++
It's been a long weekend, and I'm only just catching up on
everything.

The marking of the first assignment consumed a lot of time.
As I said in class, a good essay takes a lot less time to mark (say
10--15 minutes) when compared to a poor essay (30--45 minutes). I think a
lot of the difference has to do with how much easier it is to read a
good essay. Well structured prose, clear logic, engaging writing--it
makes it a pleasurable task rather than a chore. Generally, a good
essay only needs to be read once.

On the other hand, with a poor essay, it's not unusual to go backwards
and forwards; re-reading the same paragraph to make sense of it, going
between pages because the logic seems contradict earlier statements.
And often, the writing doesn't engage me--it doesn't make me want to
know more. But of course, that sort of thing, in some ways, goes beyond
the basics of does the student know "X". But, is in-line with the
courses learning outcomes.

But, of course, it takes a lot of practice to write well. I do wonder
if the restructuring of the degree programs here to mandate General
Education courses will result in Commerce students being able to
write better.

Kim Maree has kindly allowed me to circulate her essay here. Any
mistakes of grammar, spelling, etcetera, are probably mine as I have
transferred it from Mico$oft Word to HTM.

I like this essay, because even though she flouts some conventions,
she has enough skill to make it work. Well done Kim.


>## Team Performance Reflection
This piece of writing explores the connections between how our
company began to create strategies for playing the Mikes Bikes
simulation with a game called Mornington Crescent and theories
relating to uncertainty and map making.
>
> I like the game Mornington Crescent and would like to play.
Paddington. The game is initially deceptive. I believed Peter when
he said that the rules were complex. Dahl confirmed this when he said
"Bishop's rules". It didn't occur to me that there were no rules. The
game itself isn't very clever. The clever bit is how it represents the
randomness of mapping a feasible strategy. It reveals the contrived
nature of reason. Being a geography student I like maps,
particularly the knowledge that the only truly accurate map is one
that is life size and includes me writing in here as well as someone
drawing the map, which is of course an impossibility. All maps are
merely representations but we usually know how to connect them to
what they represent. That isn't as straightforward as it sounds.
Smircich and Stubbart (1985) remind us that there is by no means
agreement on what is being represented _reality_ can be perceived
as objective, subjective or enacted, so in fact what a map
represents can be even more abstract than the map itself.
>
>### Knightsbridge
>
>How does this relate to our group? Our stab in the dark
at trying to create a strategy was our initial map-making activity.
Or was it? Before we could begin to talk about strategy we had to
firstly meet and chat awhile, getting to know each other. It was at
this point that we started to uncover and construct our group's map by
uncovering what was already there, our backgrounds and
personalities. Michael McCaskey says that "each of us has unique
maps that have grown out of our experiences and needs" (de Witt &
Myer 1998) so when we meet new people our worlds
converge and we add them to our map. Some of each person's map is then
incorporated into a group's mega-map, but the story doesn't end
there.
>
> We need to understand that a map is a "revisable model" (1998)
constantly being updated and upgraded. If a map isn't frequently
reviewed, in McCaskey's words it can become "rigid and confining" akin
to a prison.
>
>### North Greenwich
>
> To the uninitiated, Mornington Crescent is what
McCaskey describes as an ambiguous situation. He says that "one way
of defining an ambiguous situation is to say it is one in which none
of your maps works well. Events are puzzling, confusing, and don't
fit with what you know" (1988). Mornington Crescent is ambiguous
because it initially defies the expectation a novice has that there
are a set of "rigid and confining" rules, operating like the rules
of a game like chess or monopoly. Awareness of this ambiguity can
trigger us into what Weick calls a "cosmology episode". He explains
that "basically a cosmology episode happens when people suddenly
feel that the universe is no longer a rational, orderly system." When
people are faced with this kind of disorder, they try to place order
upon it in an attempt to integrate it into their existing map,
demonstrating what McCaskey describes when he says that "we invent
theories, rituals, or superstitions to make what was uncertain and
confused into something clear and stable" (de Witt & Myer, 1998). 
>
> I have already said that it didn't
occur to me that there were no rules in Mornington Crescent. That is,
there are no overt rules. But after looking at a few related websites
and dwelling on the game for far too long, covert rules have
appeared.
>
> In The Ethics Of Constructive MC an
experienced player states that "If you win a game that's just started
getting exciting, you end it, which is no use to anyone. Do that and
you'll elicit some biting comments from the other players. Do it
regularly and you'll have the more active members of CAMRE 
(Campaign For Real Crescent) demanding you
banned. And we'd rather avoid the fuss, thankyouverymuch."
(Mornington Crescent Fan, 1996). If you don't play the game by these
"rules", other players may be dismayed at your haste to win and judge
you negatively for your impatience. What has developed in the place
of overt rules is a more subtle game etiquette embodying an
initiation into a form of ritualistic behaviour.
>
>### Old Street
>
>  We took our time developing our initial strategy. We
knew we wanted to dominate one market, but we didn't know which one.
Our Human Resources Manager helped us out. He's played the game before
so has more game-related knowledge than the rest of us. He knows the
potential size of all the markets as well as the technical and design
specifications for each market. We looked at his information and
were able to be a bit less in the dark. In stage two geography it was
suggested that paper maps were more powerful than guns for bringing
about colonial conquest and imperialism. Our HR provided us with his map and we then used that
map to create our own map. Has he conquered us? Will we then plan to
conquer someone else?
>
>### Marble Arch
>
>  Our HR dominated our first rollover. I've already talked about 
this in a weekly reflection so
don't want to double up. He has the map and compass, we are crawling
along behind. I don't want to wrestle the map off him, there's no
point.
>
> I'm quite happy for him to guide us through the early stages of the
game. It takes the pressure off me. I have a lot on my plate at
present, university courses, music performances, kids, legal
battles, family matters, etc. Why should I get uptight about someone
who makes my life easier? His knowledge takes me off the hook in
relation to needing to know every corner of the game. I'm very much a
big-picture person. If he wasn't so clued up I'd be getting even less
sleep. Why am I going to stress because he dominated the game and
knows what he's talking about? Sometimes I think I should be stressed
because a CE is meant to be "in charge". The
Black Book (2004) says the CE will "provide
oversight of functional areas, coordinating decision feedback and
linking it to company performance." I have been doing this, but our
HR has been at the forefront of it. But
that's ok, in this situation I see myself more as a facilitator
because this game isn't my "baby", it's not my project, it doesn't have
to go my way. Which gets me thinking, perhaps we shouldn't have
revealed our strategy yet, perhaps we could have created a mock
strategy and acted really lame in order for the other groups to think we
don't know what we are doing, then when the real thing comes along
totally knock their socks off. From our lecture this week I now know
that this is a well known strategy, called a ploy.
>
>### Earl's Court
>
> I played chess with a 10yr old recently. I haven't played
for ages. He thrashed me in the first game. But in the second one, he
made one silly move and I instantly checkmated him. He didn't ask for
another game. This was within about ten moves of the game beginning
when hardly any pieces had been taken off the board. I'm more strategic
and competitive than I thought. Finally, after raising children and
all that, I've realised that I like chess and I love winning, which
brings me back to Mornington Crescent. Further to the advice cited
above, the experienced player declared that "there's more to being a
good Mornington Crescent player than merely winning." More than
winning? He goes on to say that "Mornington Crescent, when played
well, is a beautiful thing. It's stylish, it's literary, it can
amuse, it can sadden, it's like a symphony, an Old Master... I'm
getting carried away. But you see my point." (Mornington Crescent
Fan, 1996).
>
> The point being made is that the game is an art as well as a science--
what matters is the journey, not the destination. Could this game
be presenting a model for a new business paradigm? In these
turbulent times could the corporate world be ready to move towards
this kind of mind shift? Imagine a world (John Lennon time) where
people deliberated over being in the moment rather than rushing
headlong towards a bulls eye target elucidated during a frenzied
goal-setting brainstorm.
>
>### Angel
>
> Second rollover. Our HR wasn't as
dominant as last time. Thinking over the situation it occurred to me
that we all have our roles, or rather the roles we think we are taking
on. We wear these roles like costumes because they come from outside
ourselves. Beneath that are the roles we inherently inhabit. To the
naked eye, our HR is our HR. But beneath this clothing, when we play Mikes
Bikes, he's the CE, or (more plausibly) a
co-CEO. Surprisingly, this doesn't bother me. My "dressing up" role
is that of a CE. That's what everyone sees
me as--but when we play Mikes Bikes I feel like some sort of HR, 
encouraging everyone to contribute.
>
> Another way of looking at this is similar to the idea of overt and covert
rules in Mornington Crescent. We have the overt 'outer' roles and
undeclared, covert 'shadow' roles. The outer roles are the roles we
think we're taking on but the shadow roles are the ones that matter
most because that's what we're really doing.
>
>### Surrey Quays
>
> Our team has one process-focussed meeting time each
week when we talk about how we are and how we think the group is going.
During these meetings I'm the CE. I
asserted my authority by letting the group know that I like to strive
for good grades and that I have spent lots of time in process groups.
I did a bit of impression management. Another way of looking at the
reason my role is a bit different during task-time and group
process-time is because, as Weick says, "there is no _one best
map_" sensemaking lends itself to multiple, conflicting
interpretations, all of which are plausible" (cited in Coutu, 2003).
>
> In management, despite what people like to think, there's no "one
best way". As a CE I have to be adaptable
and aware that we are all reading from different maps that overlap
in places. I could have forced our HR into
submission but that wouldn't have been the best thing for the group,
in fact it probably would have been very destructive. Our HR is likable 
and enthusiastic and it would have
appeared unreasonable for me to hold him back. You could say this is
impression management because I don't want to appear overly
controlling, but equally you could say that I'm letting go of my need
to control in favour of considering what is best for the group
overall.
>
>### Queen's Park
>
> Despite his dominance during our decision making
meetings, our HR is open to trying new
ideas. He makes it clear if he hadn't already thought of a particular
strategy, and says "we'll try it offline, roll forward, roll back,
ok?" So we do. When decisions he doesn't think will work actually do,
he's open about it. He likes our team winning more than the need to be
right. The ability to put the best thing for the team before an
individual's ego is important. Our HR is
able to modify his own map of the game to accommodate the team
attaining its goals. Katzenbach and Smith show that the advantage of
a high performing team over a working group is that the team is able
to produce a "collective work product" (1992). What this means is
that the team is greater than the sum of all its parts. The reaction of
our HR when he is shown something he didn't
already know guides the way for our team to generate this
collective work product.
>
>### Pudding Mill Lane
>
> It is interesting to consider Paul Baard's
comments on the scenario outlined by Wetlaufer in "The team that
wasn't" (2000) at this point. Baard states that a Randy, a difficult
team member, is managing to negatively influence the whole team
because of "psychological fusion". Baard says that "fusion occurs
when we fail to differentiate ourselves emotionally from the
opinions and conduct of others". He goes on the say that when people
participate in fusion, they "allow other people to _make us feel_
either good or bad". When applying these ideas to maps, fusion is when
someone disregards another person's map and imposes their own one upon
the scenario. Our HR's good natured approach
and his willingness to explore and acknowledge other people's ideas
mean that he hasn't "fused" with anyone in the group. His influence
hasn't been destructive but constructive because his enthusiasm and
knowledge have encouraged the rest of the team to "pick up their
game" in order to match his ability in their decision making areas.
Mornington Crescent. This has been an exploration of the
relationship between a game with no rules, our team's emerging
strategies and theories regarding map making during times of
uncertainty. If Peter is reading this, he's rushed straight to the
destination rather than enjoying the journey and the surprise of
finally arriving at Mornington Crescent.

>## References
>Coutu, D. (2003). Sense and reliability. _Harvard Business
Review, 81_(4), 84--91.
>
> Katzenbach, J., & Smith, D. (1992). Why teams
matter. _McKinsey Quarterly, 3_, 3--27.
>
> Kolb, D., & Smith, P. (2004). _The black
book: Course outline MGMT 301: Management theory and practice_. Auckland, 
University of Auckland Business School.
>
> McCaskey, M. (1998). Conceptual mapping. _Strategy--Process,
content, context: An international perspective_. Wit Bob de and
Meyer R. London; Boston, International Thomson Business Press.
>
> Mornington Crescent Fan (1996). _The Ethics of Constructive
M. 2004_. Retrieved from www at
[https://madeira.physiol.ucl.ac.uk/delphi/interactive/mcg/play.html](https://madeira.physiol.ucl.ac.uk/delphi/interactive/mcg/play.html)
>
> Smircich, L., & Stubbart, C. (1985).
_Strategic management in an enacted world. Academy of Management Review, 10_(4), 724--735.
>
> Wetlaufer, S. (2000). The team that wasn't. _Harvard Business
Review_, November-December, 22--38.

