+++
draft = "False"
categories = [
  "Learning",
  "Teaching",
]
slug = "student-engagement"
date = "2017-04-18T08:56:07+12:00"
title = "Student engagement"

+++

Scattered around the University's websites (and in the work of
colleagues in [CleaR](http://www.clear.auckland.ac.nz) there are many
references to student engagement. This is probably because "Engagement
could be described as the holy grail of learning .... because it has
been linked with to positive learning outcomes both in and out of
schools" (Sinatra, Heddy & Lombardi, 2015, p. 1). From the perspective
of a manager, I have often found the notion to engagement---in
general---to be somewhat messy. Consequently, I am even less certain
what is meant by _student engagement_.

In thinking of engagement, I find it useful to bear in mind its
opposite --- 'alienation' (Khan, 2014).

"A programme of education typically requires students to engage with
specific sets of tasks and activities. Where higher education is
concerned, there are choices to be made about how much time is devoted
to one’s studies, and about such considerations as where and how one
studies. There is significant scope for variation in how, or whether,
a student carries forward their learning" (Kahn, 2014, p. 1006).

It is argued that learning does need to be self-regulated---by the
students--and this "This is the case not only for the cognition
entailed in learning, but also for the behaviours and motivation
expressed by students.... Specific strategies, for instance, that have
been shown to enhance a student's own motivation include
self-consequating, interest enhancement and self-talk in pursuit of
goals. Regulation may also be seen to involve various phases, for
instance taking in mental activity that is focused on forethought,
activation, monitoring, control and reaction. Studies on metacognition
similarly emphasises the role that the learner plays in monitoring and
controlling their own cognitive activity." (Khan, 2014, p.1007).
Overall, it is seen as desirable for students to take responsibility
for their learning. It is less clear to me if this is a statement of
'belief' or if it is a statement relating to learning outcomes.

That said, "Engagement involves more than simply participating in some
practice, but is accompanied by a range of feelings around those
practices, and an attempt to make sense of the activity" (Khan, 2014,
p.1006)


In their review of measures of engagement, Sinatra et al., (2015)
suggest there are four type of engagement:

1. Behavioural engagement: "operationalized as involvement on one's
   own learning and academic tasks and is usually defined in one of
   three ways, including positive conduct, involvement in academic
   tasks, and participation in schoole related activities.... Measures
   of behavioural engagement include displays of effort, peristance,
   behavioural aspects of attention ..., and seld-directed academic
   behaviour (Sinatra et al., 2015, p. 2).

2. Emotional engagement: "is define as students' emotional reactions
   to academic subject areas such as science or to school more
   generally.... Often included in operational definitions ... are
   motivational constructs such as perception of value related to
   school and interest. Task values are believes about the return
   benefit that individuals perceive for engaging in specific
   school-related tasks (Sinatra et al., 2015, p. 2).

3. Cognitive engagement: "is more difficult to precisely define....
   [as there] is a lack of agreement ... how cognitive engagement
   should be operationalized. A widely used definition ... is
   psychological investment. Conceptualized this was, many of the
   dimensions of cognitive engagement overlap with dimensions of both
   behavioural engagement (i.e., effort) and emotional engagement. This
   raises the issue of whether the dimensions can be effectively
   differentiated." (Sinatra et al., 2015, p. 3)

4. Agentic engagement: "where students are proactive during
   instruction .... [they] actively contributes to the flow of
   instruction .... however, [it] is a new idea, and much more
   research is needed to validate the construct." (Sinatra et al.,
   2015, p. 3)

"Engagement with learning could be examined in any discipline, task,
subject matter, or content area. Certainly there are domain-general
aspects of engagement. For instance, all engagement likely includes
psychophysiological arousal that generates a cognitive, behavioral,
and/or emotional response. Other domain-general aspects of engagement
include attention, metacognitive awareness, emotions (positive or
negative), and behavior."


Sinatra et al., (2015) go on to list some of the challenges associated
with measuring student engagement.

First, there remain problems around the definition of the construct.
It is still not clear if researchs can produce an integrated view of
engagement that addresses/distinguishes all the dimensions of
engagement. Second, there is the issue of "grain size"; do we care
about engagement in a particular task, during a specific class, within
an entire course or programme of study, or at the level of the school
(or beyond that even). Thirdly, there are individual differences
stemming from age, race, gender, socio-economic status, and so on.
Perhaps most importantly, there is the challenge of identifying the
source of engagement; e.g., "If a researcher reports or observes
engaged behavior in a lesson on force using toy cars, is it the
concept itself, the car, or the interaction with the other students
that is the cause of the engagement?" (Sinatra et al., 2015, p 8).


That all being said, and notion of student engagement needs to built
upon an understanding of student learning, but we still have a "need
for theories of student learning to draw on a more sophisticated
approach to theorising the individual and society, taking into account
recent developments in these two fields" (Khan, 2014). Khan (2014, p.
1008) has much to say about in this regard. "Learning inherently
involves one in progressing projects in unfamiliar contexts ...
uncertainty plays a role in impelling learning quite generally....
Such factors as the novelty of the context, the presence of
incongruities or the range of possible ways forward all all related to
the challenges entailed in learning.... On going gains in knowledge
suggest the world is radically unknowable, and this results in
challenges for both novices and experts.... [Thus] students need to
come to terms with anxiety and that humans flourishing involves 'living
effectively amid uncertainty'.... But a longstanding body of research
also points to the social basis of knowledge and its acquisition.
Recent research has emphasised the need to consider social goals
within the regulation of learning.... 'There is, however, a growing
conceptual agreement in the literature from both sociocultural and
socio-cognitive perspectives that both self and social forms of
regulation are needed to understand regulation in actual learning
activities'. This suggests that we need to widen the frame of our
discussion beyond the agency of the individual learner, to include the
way that groups of learners and tutors pool their agency together."

This all seems to suggest that engagement (a) is a function (or
identical to) the degree of self-regulation of learning that student
undertakes, and that (b) student engagement actually goes beyond the
individual and must---somehow---include the communities in which the
student participates.

That all makes engagement a problematic issue.

## References

Kahn, P. E. (2014). Theorising student engagement in higher education.
_British Educational Research Journal, 40_(6), 1005–1018.
https://doi.org/10.1002/berj.3121


Sinatra, G. M., Heddy, B. C., & Lombardi, D. (2015). The challenges of
defining and measuring student engagement in science. _Educational
Psychologist, 50_(1), 1–13.
https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.2014.1002924





