+++
title = "Glillani - Chapter 1"
date = 2020-03-07T16:05:18+13:00
draft = "False"
categories = [ 
	"Learning", 
	"Teaching", 
	"Technology"
	]
+++

These notes are based on chapter 1 of:

Gillani, B. B. (2003). _Learning theories and the design of e-learning environments_. University Press of America.

p.1 "_Telling is not teaching: listening is not learning, Anonymous_"

Human intelligence can be split into eight somewhat related types (Gardner, 1983):

- linguistic
- logical-mathematics
- spatial
- bodily-kinsthetic
- musical
- interpersonal
- intrapersonal
- naturalistic

p.6 "Researchers ... support the concept that the brain is
pattern-seeking device that analyzes specific features from the
environment and then generates permanent neural activities that
represent these features. These newly formed neural patterns .... are
being combined and organized with prior knowledge according to core
concepts of major themes that guide the thinking, memory, and problems
solving of students."

p.7 "O'Keefe and Nadal (1974) discovered two types of memory: _taxon_
and _locale_. Taxon memory is concerned with facts and figures and
depends on rehearsal and rote memorization. Because it is
non-contextual and not integrated with prior knowledge, the retrial of
this type of memory is difficult when needed for problem solving....
it is driven by the limbic system [of the brain].... Locale memory is
contextual and situational based. The hippocampus in our limbic system
creates a spatial and contextual of the environmental input. These
maps are continuously reconstructed in our memory as the new
information is combined with prior information. Therefore, our memory
becomes internal and virtually permanent."

p.7 "Experts are those individuals who have organised their taxon
memory into their locale memory according to the big picture of some
core concepts. A novice, on the other hand, simply memorizes new
information without any attempt to encode it into long-term memory
without much regard to its organization. The difference between the
way an expert learns and to organize information and the novice who
just memorizes new information becomes apparent when it comes to
retrieval and problem solving. The former can easily retrieve relevant
information to solve the problem at hand, whereas the novice attempts
in vain to use a variety of approaches to solve the problem at hand.
In other words, experts have achieved meaningful knowledge structures
and problem solving abilities and novices have not."

p.8 "Metacognition refers to the knowledge about oneself as
learner.... Learns can be taught strategies to monitor and regulate
their own learning. These strategies include planning, monitoring, and
regulating. These strategies are important in helping students learn
how to learn."

p.8 "Researchers ... have argued that a child's [or a person's]
development cannot be understood by a study of the individual. One
must also examine the external, social, and historical world in which
the individual's life develops. Each member of the society assists the
child's cognitive development."
