+++
title = "DOI"
date = "2011-03-15T09:02:00+12:00"
categories = ["IT"]
slug = "doi"
draft = "False"
+++
I'm an avid user of [Zotero](http://www.zotero.org/) for the management
of my bibliography, and for much of my note taking on what I have read.
Sometime ago, DOIs started to appear in my references.

Indeed, the [APA Style Guide to Electronic
References](http://books.apa.org/books.cfm?id=4210509)) in June 2007
made DOI an official part of the citation.

In case you were wondering, according to [APA
Style](http://www.apastyle.org/learn/faqs/what-is-doi.aspx):

> A digital object identifier (DOI) is a unique alphanumeric string
> assigned by a registration agency (the International DOI Foundation)
> to identify content and provide a persistent link to its location on
> the Internet. The publisher assigns a DOI when your article is
> published and made available electronically.
>
> All DOI numbers begin with a 10 and contain a prefix and a suffix
> separated by a slash. The prefix is a unique number of four or more
> digits assigned to organizations; the suffix is assigned by the
> publisher and was designed to be flexible with publisher
> identification standards.
>
> We recommend that when DOIs are available, you include them for both
> print and electronic sources. The DOI is typically located on the
> first page of the electronic journal article, near the copyright
> notice. The DOI can also be found on the database landing page for the
> article.

So, I can understand why they are there (it's good practice), but I'm left
wondering as to how much effort I should put into updating all my references
with DOIs. With nearly 2,000 references in my database it could be pretty time
consuming if I were to do it manually. At the moment I do it on an "as needed"
basis, updating those references that I actually use in new pieces of writing.
But it would be really nice to have a way to automagically update most/all of
the references that I have. Maybe I should ask the Zotero folk if there is a
way to do it programatically.

