+++
title = "Git to it"
date = 2020-03-08T09:03:08+13:00
draft = "False"
categories = [ 
	"Productivity", 
	"IT", 
	]
+++

I use git for a few things, but the most important use is as part of my
workflow for this blog. I push changes--e.g., update content--to
[https://github.com](Github), where those changes are noticed by
[https://netlify.com](Netlify) which drags them out and runs
[https://gohugo.io/](Hugo) to make this site.

Here are some shortened notes based on the very helpful
[https://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/](git guide).


### To checkout a repository ###

Create a working copy of a local repository by running the command

<kbd>git clone /path/to/repository</kbd> 

When using a remote server, your command will be

<kbd>git clone username@host:/path/to/repository</kbd>


### To add and commit ###
You can propose changes (add it to the Index) using

<kbd>git add <filename></kbd> or <kbd>git add *</kbd>

This is the first step in the basic git workflow. To actually commit
these changes use

<kbd>git commit -m "Commit message"</kbd>

Now the file is committed to the HEAD, but not in your remote
repository yet.

### To push changes ###

Your changes are now in the HEAD of your local working copy. To send
those changes to your remote repository, execute 

<kbd>git push origin master</kbd>

Change master to whatever branch you want to push your changes to.

If you have not cloned an existing repository and want to connect your
repository to a remote server, you need to add it with 

<kbd>git remote add origin <server></kbd>

Now you are able to push your changes to the
selected remote server

### To update & merge ###
To update your local repository to the newest commit, execute 

<kbd>git pull</kbd>

in your working directory to fetch and merge remote changes.
