+++
title = "Bye bye g-suite"
draft = "False"
categories = [
  "Productivity",
  "IT",
]
slug = "bye-bye-gsuite"
date = "2017-05-08T19:19:45+12:00"

+++

Here at (the University of Auckland)[https://www.auckland.ac.nz/],
everyone---students and staff---get a free Google account hanging of
the back of the @aucklanduni.ac.nz domain. The really nice thing is
that it gives you unlimited storage (Gmail, Google Drive, etc) for
life; even after you have left the University.

I have been using it, problem free, as my main email and cloud-based
storage for a few years now.

Alas, it is less than clear to me who at the university also has
access to 'my' data.

So, over the weekend I moved off the university's account and onto my
(own) accounts with gmail (for mail) and Dropbox (for cloud-based
storage and collaboration).

The move to Dropbox was pretty easy, remove Google Drive, install
Dropbox and sync. A few hours later everything is in Dropbox. Once it
was there, I re-synced my NAS to Dropbox (instead of Google Drive),
which only took an hour or so. No problems so far.

Moving my email was a little tricker. Google have a migration tool,
but after transferring about 400 of the 160,0000 emails I have, it
seemed to stall. So I moved over to using (Got your
back)[https://github.com/jay0lee/got-your-back/wiki] to download from
the old account (pretty fast), and upload it to my new account (much
much slower, but that probably is a Google issue. I had used this tool
before when I split my email into work and home accounts (when I
originally moved my email onto the @aucklanduni.ac.nz domain).

Since then the tool has gotten even better. It handles labels,
and---maybe more importantly---seems to handle duplicate emails.

All good, and relatively easy.

I am also using this as an excuse to go through all the on-line
services I use (e.g., (SmashRun)[https://www.smashrun.com/] to either
rationalise my email address (I had at least seven) or to delete
unused accounts. It's good to be a tidy kiwi.
